
A project examining the presentation of children with diabetes.

A case control study on data from the THIN database (a GP consultation database)

The study questions (the short version - there are subsets to analyse but if we can get the methods OK for these questions then the
others should be OK with the same techniques)
1. Do children with Diabetes Mellitus present more frequently than their controls before they are diagnosed with DM?

2. If so - when do they start to present more frequently? (in relation to the time of their diagnosis - how many days before
being diagnosed?)

3. Hypothesis generating/descriptive: How do they present i.e. what modes of presentation and what codes are recorded?


The dataset: The basics
Extracted from the THIN database.
10,000 patients: 2000 cases and 8000 matched controls.
Matched on Age, gender, practice and consultation date - within 21 days of the case.
Variables for 
  various types of consultation (all, subsets including out of hours, face to face only etc.)
  Dates - index date (when diagnosis of Diabetes made), event dates(when the consultations occurred), Birthdate, registration with
  the practice and transfer out. Dates of deaths
  demographics - Age, sex, 
  diagnoses - type of diabetes, other codes that were recorded during consultations
  Our variables - individual id, case number for matched controls

Statistical issues: 
The big question is how to best perform an analysis of matched data to give time dependent effect estimates?  I.e. I want to know
at what time before diagnosis the cases start presenting at a higher rate than controls. I also want to be able to compare the baseline 
rate of consultations as I am worried that matching on the consultation date may have selected a subset of potential controls who are high
attenders for whatever reason.  
Where I'm at: 
1. Conditional logistic regression could be used to constrain within matched sets, but this doesn't give time dependent estimates.  
Is it valid/workable to break downt the time at risk of event into further matched sections by lexix expansion, 
or will this cause problems given the large number of empty periods this will casue?
2. Is there a way of constraining Poisson regression (or some other method) to perform a valid matched analysis?
